the most important thing you need to
look for if you're a cook is something
that happens up here and that is an air
pocket I've already said the shell is
porous and if you want to cook eggs you
need to know all about the air pocket
before you start to cook them because
what the air pocket tells you is how old
the egg is when an egg is fresh there's
very little air pocket and when it's
stale there's a lot and that is so
significant in cooking now first of all
before you even start to cook an egg
you've got to go and buy your eggs and
my advice to you is always look at the
date stamp on the box and go to a
supplier where they tell you the packing
date the sell by date isn't always very
helpful so go to a supplier that gives
you the packing date then you've got a
clue before you buy them when you get
them home and you want to use them in
various recipes there's some other tests
that I can show you how fresh is an egg
well if there's very little air in the
air pocket the egg when you put it in a
tumbler of water will sink to the bottom
of the water in a horizontal position so
you'll know before you break that out of
its shell that that's quite a fresh egg
if it's not so fresh it'll just slightly
tilt into a semi horizontal position
like that one
and if it's stale then it will sit up in
a vertical position and if it's very
stale like this one it'll float to the
top like that now there's another way to
tell if an egg is fresh after it's
broken out of the shell and here we've
got three more little tests to show you
the first one is the very fresh egg
which has got a lovely sort of plump
proud yolk that's what to look for and a
gelatinous ring of white that sort of
clings around the oak and another ring
of white so you've got the double ring
there what happens when it's not so
fresh is that the yolk in the middle
looks slightly flatter not quite
surrounded and you can see here the
double ring is not so visible it's
almost disappeared on this one and
there's much more of the watery white
then we move on to the stale one
and the stale one here has got a very
flat yolk and there's just watery white
and what would happen if you wanted to
put that in poaching water it would just
well just disintegrate so that's why you
don't want to stay a leg for poaching
you